it's gonna be like i'd encourage you to
like sucker punch your client just a
little bit more
everyone this is coach isaac
isaac this is everyone
um
so you're feeling nervous
a little bit yeah yeah
i you know
yeah i think that's probably
normal
yeah
thank you so much for agreeing to do
this um i hope we'll have some fun i i
think you're gonna do great you know
because i i've seen what your clients
say about you and what they say about
you is that you're great so i'm sure
you'll do fine
um and also you know i'm not going to go
easy on you
so um
you know i think let's let's kind of put
you through your paces
i'm ready okay
so i'm coming to my first
coaching session
okay so we don't have to do the whole um
you know boundary spiel and things like
that but we can you know so you can skip
the
you know dm's
like all that kind of stuff
yeah yeah
but so take it away man
all right
welcome nice to meet you what do you
what do you go by
um uh you can call me olok
oh look okay you can call me isaac so
what how about we start off by talking a
bit about what it is that brings you to
coaching
um so i saw uh
like dr k's
like i've seen his streams
and um i think that like he's able to
help people
in
like a way that i'm kind of looking for
and so
um
you know i was kind of hoping to talk to
him
but uh you know i guess that that's not
possible
yeah yeah so i i don't think dr k is
taking on any new clients as of late
so yeah but i'm here
yeah
um
so what were you looking to get help
with
um you know like so i have problems with
like confidence and self-esteem and
there are a lot of things that like i
know i should do
but
you know it's like hard like you know i
kind of feel stuck
okay
yeah can you tell me what you mean by
feeling stuck
well like you know i i know that i
should be doing like particular things
like i know i should go to the gym and
stuff
like i know that i need to like get in
shape
um
you know i'm about
10 to 20 pounds
heavier than where i want to be
okay um and so you know i need to like
work on that kind of stuff
gotcha um
and can you can you elaborate a bit on
uh what you mean by confidence
well
so i know that like confidence is
important right so if you like approach
people and you're confident
then things go better for you
but
and so i know like i should be confident
but it's just really hard for me to like
be confident so i'm i'm hoping like
you know like can you teach me how to be
more confident
like
i can't teach you per se but we can like
talk through it and certainly try to
understand it so like i don't i don't i
don't know you yet you know um so what
can you can you actually share with me
like what happens now when you approach
people because you said if you're
confident goes better for you how does
it go now
well that's kind of the problem is that
i don't really like approach people
you know so like i'm i'm a student i'm a
junior
um you know at the beginning i thought
that like
you know if at the beginning i thought
like i'm just a freshman and like you
know i'll figure it out like everyone
has problems approaching people but like
i'm a junior now um you know i don't
really like go to parties and stuff
um i don't really like hang out with
other people
and
you know
yeah so so what i'm hearing is
a lot of the trouble you're having is
coming from a lack of self-esteem and
confidence and there's a lot of things
you should be doing know you should be
doing but aren't and so
what i'm hearing now is you have trouble
like approaching people and and doing
all these things that you sounds like
feel like you should be doing right
yeah
so so what
what do you end up doing instead of all
these things that you should be doing
um i mean most of the time so like i i
do like okay in terms of my classes and
stuff like not great like that too i
should be working you know i should be
spending more time at the library and
stuff
um
but
really i just you know i do i do get
most of my work done most of the time
but it's basically that and then like i
spend time you know in my dorm room
um
when i'm not doing that like i spend
some time gaming and stuff like that you
know spend a lot of time on youtube i
listen to a lot of podcasts
um
you know
yeah so
it might sound like a silly question and
you don't have to know the answer but
what gets in the way of you going out
and like meeting people or working out
trying to lose weight and all this stuff
well i mean i think it's that's what i
was kind of saying about like the
confidence thing like i just don't
it's really hard for me to like
do that you know i don't i don't know
like where to start
sure yeah
so and when you say
confidence right i think you i asked
earlier um
you're talking about how you like view
yourself right
i guess so
can you what do you mean by that
well actually i should just ask you
because i'm forgetting now but what do
you mean when you say confidence
well just like you know confident people
can do things right and like if i'm
confident i'll be able to like go up to
someone and like introduce myself um you
know if there's like like there's uh
like for example like a girl in my in
one of my classes
and you know i'd love to get to know her
a little bit better but it's it's just
really hard like i'm pretty sure she's
got a boyfriend you know she's gotta
have a boyfriend
um and and she's like awesome and she's
funny and we're like into a lot of the
same things and she's like super cute
um but it's just like i just can't you
know like i really
like there's a part of me that wants to
but i also know like there's no point
right because she's she's got a
boyfriend so
but like
you know there's a part of me that
sometimes wonders like what if she
doesn't you know
okay so yeah so it sounds like
confidence is like a prerequisite to
doing all these things that you want to
do like it takes there's a threshold and
you're just you're not there yet right
um and it sounds like you're actually
pretty torn on
wanting to
to go up to this girl like on the one
hand it's pointless because she probably
has a boyfriend but there's a tiny part
of you that's like well what if right
yeah i mean i like i'm pretty sure but
you know i also don't like
technically know you know like i've
never asked her
right so it seems like low odds
yeah
and so that's another big thing is you
know if if if something has like
a low likelihood of success like
logically i just know it's not a good
use of my time
sure yeah
um
and can you
around when would you say how long have
you been struggling with this
i mean honestly it feels like in a sense
my whole life like i'm never really and
i think that's kind of part of the
problem is that
you know what i realized is that like
when i was a freshman so i've been
watching a lot of like dr k streams and
stuff and i realized that
you know by the time freshman year
rolled around
like the people who made friends were
the ones who like knew how to talk to
people
but i kind of missed that boat
in high school right so i didn't really
know how to talk to people in high
school and so
like every year that goes by it's like
it's becoming like later and later
and you know i'm just not sure how to
find that confidence now
right so it seems like everyone else
like hits
had some
internal idea as to how to like do these
social things and like hit these
milestones and then you didn't hit it
when everyone else did and
since then it's kind of like you've been
trying to catch up but feeling stuck
right
yeah because like you know logically
there's no way that i can you know go
back and do it over if i if i could i
would
sure yeah
so do you remember how you felt at that
time when everyone else seemed to be
making friends and you
weren't
i mean i've always been like pretty good
at controlling my emotions
so i i kind of knew that you know
like i was okay i was okay with it like
i sort of see now that it was sort of a
problem but back then it wasn't really
like
you know
i wasn't gonna be like some edge lord
sure yeah what do you mean when you say
controlling your emotions how do you
control them well so i've noticed that a
lot of people are
you know they're not really in control
of their emotions so they'll do things
like
you know they can't control it so
they'll they'll they'll like break down
and stuff like that
whereas i've always been like really
good like i have a um
like i took an iq test and i'm like high
up on the iq scale i also took a eq test
from harvard business review and i'm
supe i'm high on that as well
so i've got like
you know a really good
understanding i know dr k emphasizes it
a lot too
so
i'm keeping him
yeah so it sounds like you're really
on top of yourself right
yeah
emotionally so
what emotions are you controlling
exactly once
wow that was a really good question
um
i'd say mostly like
the lack of confidence
is
what i'm controlling i guess
no i'm not quite sure
that sort of doesn't logically make
sense
how so
well because like if i could control my
lack of confidence like emotionally then
i could do the things that
you know
i should say i'm i can do
but that's what it sort of feels like i
mean i feel like i you know i'm in
control
but
the main thing is like the lack of
confidence
right so when
when you say
control so you were comparing to like um
people that have like breakdowns and
stuff right so it sounds like you don't
let the emotion get the best of you
yeah
exactly
right so
does that mean the emotion still comes
up
and then you control it
well yeah that's sort of what i mean is
like you know i don't let it get the
best of me so like you know i can
control it so
you know my frontal lobe
is in control
of my emotional circuitry
so it doesn't just like you said like it
doesn't get the best of me
okay
yeah and and
like what you said was interesting is
that
it seems like if you if you were
controlling it then
you know
it wouldn't be stopping you from doing
all these things you want to do
yeah i i get that i'm not quite sure
you know because i i do definitely feel
in control of my emotions but i sort of
like acknowledge that
you know if i were in your shoes
i would be thinking like oh this guy
like
like if he if he was better at
controlling his emotions he like
probably wouldn't have all these
problems
you know
sure yeah
um
how are you feeling as we're talking
about it
well i kind of feel like
you know
i imagine like on some levels i'm like
actually way better than your average
client but i imagine you're maybe
thinking that
i'm maybe not
as
you know with it as some of your other
clients are
like how would you say i rank compared
to like some of the other people you
work with
um
what what makes you curious about the
other people i work with
i don't know i'm just curious about it
you know
like i'm i want i want to you know like
where do i fit in compared to like the
average person who comes here
yeah what what would it mean if you were
like
below average or above average the
for the people that come in and see me
well i guess what i'm trying to figure
out is like whether this is a good fit
you know so like i'm a big fan of like
dr k and the streams and stuff but like
you know i'm just trying to figure out
if this is like if this is if this kind
of stuff is like stuff that you can help
me with or
you know
or not kind of thing you know so i'm
kind of curious about you know how other
people are
yeah makes sense
before i attempt to answer that though
what what is it about the streams that
you like
well so i i like that you know people
seem to have like roadblocks
and and so like
they kind of overcome those roadblocks
and then the other thing is there are a
couple of streams where like i can see
at the end that people are like feeling
more confident
and so i'm hoping that like by talking
to you like at the end of this like i'll
feel more confident right go through
that process
of building that confidence
right yeah and then and then with that
you would be able to go and like start
losing weight and start talking to
people and all this stuff right yeah
yeah
exactly
makes sense
um
i think i'm still a little
stuck on
like
this piece about controlling
the emotions
right like that seems like there's still
something to figure out there
yeah i mean i i can see that
you know so how do we figure it out
it's a good question
um
let me think for a second
can you share is there anything from
streams in particular that's resonated
with you like particular interviews or
insights
yeah i mean i think that there are i'm
kind of curious though like i mean do
you think that this is something that
you could help me with or are you kind
of thinking
you know like that maybe
like
you know this is not gonna work out
i don't know
i mean i think we've been talking for a
total of
like 15 20 minutes
i think i don't know enough about you
yet to see
like
where this is gonna go
what do you think about that though
i don't know i i sometimes feel like
i'm not able to give you like the best
answers so i'm i'm a little bit worried
that
you know like you were kind of saying
about the control stuff like i see where
you're coming from like i should be able
to give you a better answer about that
and so one of the things that i'm kind
of concerned about is that
you know on stream it's like
people like seem to understand their
problems really well
but i'm not so sure that
you know i'm gonna
you you seem actually like super smart
and stuff like that too
um
but i'm just a little bit worried that
like i may not be able to give you kind
of the answers that you need to help me
and so what if i told you that
everything you've told me so far
has been immensely helpful
well
i mean like it's kind of your job to say
that right
it's like what are you gonna do like
tell me like everything you've told me
is idiotic and a waste of our time
fair right like you can't be entirely
sure if i'm gonna be honest with you
about the quality of your answers makes
sense um
and i can see where you're coming from
in regards of like yeah when you go on
when you watch the streams it's like dr
k is like talking to these people and
they're like answers it seems like
they're like getting somewhere and right
now we're like
stuck on this one
piece and can't seem to get past that
right
yeah yeah kind of yeah
well i like
i'm curious
what's happened in the past when you've
tried to
confront this confidence issue
well like i mean something rather
he you know like kind of doesn't work
out and and usually like i tend to screw
things up
like i i start out really strong and i i
know i'm capable of doing it
um it's just when it comes to like the
implementation phase so like
um
you know i
one of the one like so i'm i listen to a
lot of podcasts and stuff and there's
this one guy who was talking about
reading one book every day so i started
doing that
because i can handle that
and
and you know so i read like one book a
day
and so i've learned a lot about
confidence and psychology and things
like that but when it comes to the
actual like implementation phase
i think it's just something falls apart
like i just kind of like basically
dropped the ball
you know so it's like i've got all the
pieces
to fix my problem but like something
just
i'm not sure what happens exactly
yeah what's the implement implementation
phase
so like i was um you know i'll listen to
like
trp podcasts and stuff like that i've
taken a couple of classes on like pickup
and that sort of thing
and then you know i understand the
theory really well but when it actually
comes to like
approaching women like either i kind of
screw it up or it doesn't really work or
like
you know it it just doesn't happen the
way that you know people describe in the
books
right i see what you're saying now so so
you've got a ton of information at your
disposal you read a lot like you
understand these things intellectually
and then you go to try to act and then
it's like something something screws up
something doesn't happen
basically me right because like if the
information's right and the theory's
right
and you know it doesn't work out like
you know what's the common variable
sure yeah
so
what do you mean that it's
it's basically you
like
what what is you here
well like me like you know
it sort of doesn't matter like you know
i can try
you know
going to a party and like
you know having a couple of drinks and
then there's also like you know
everyone's been drinking so it's like
everything should be easier socially but
like that doesn't really work out for me
like you know there may be girls in my
class and stuff and like i've got like a
reason to talk to them right so like one
of the things that i read is like any
time you're approaching a girl like you
should have some reason
to talk to them
um
and and so i've got that right so i've
got like like i'm gonna ask this girl
like hey do you want to study for this
test together or whatever
um and then there was one one girl that
for example was wearing like a t-shirt
um for an anime that i really liked
and so i thought that would be like kind
of an in but it just didn't and so like
what's the common element like it's it's
me right so i'm i'm not able to do
you know what i'm supposed to be able to
do
yes it sounds like there's some
core thing here that's outside of the
the
practical knowledge the the intellect
that's
that is like what you're describing as
you and like fundamentally there's
something that you like that
can't be done here
right now i mean that's why i'm coming
here because like you know this is
basically like you know i'm 21 years old
like this is my like last chance you
know
what makes you say it's your last chance
well like you know most people you know
they like like date and stuff like in
college and like once college ends like
you know
it's gonna be hard
and then like
you know if i if i have no experience or
anything like that like
you know
yeah so like
like when a girl asks me like how many
people i've been with and i say zero
like that doesn't
you know
it's not gonna go well bro
right yeah so
sounds like there's another boat here
that you're worried about missing
yeah yeah
right that's
and can you clarify for me
like so so there's
you and like the information are like
two different things right so like you
having all that information doesn't
translate into things like the things
you want to do being done right yeah
so what makes you keep like reading
i don't know i mean i i guess because
like reading's like a good thing right
like
like i'm interested in growth
and stuff
so does does reading help you grow
i mean i
yeah i guess so right and isn't that
what
is that why people read
so
benefit from like other people's
knowledge and like
grow
do you feel like you've grown from
reading
i mean i feel like i understand a lot
more stuff
and how is
understanding stuff impacted you
well i mean that's kind of the problem
right is it's like not translating
right so i guess i get i mean i guess
you could make the argument that that's
not actually growth
which is interesting i never really
thought about it that way
yeah so so what do you think about that
that it seems like you
keep on
reading and trying to understand things
on an intellectual level and
like about all these things that you
want to with your life but
that doesn't change seem to change
anything
like
it seems like you know more and you
understand like the theory behind a lot
of things
but the things you want to do or get
done don't seem to be happening
yeah i mean i i think that's actually a
really good
like that you know that's that's kind of
like why i'm stuck because i'm doing
everything i'm supposed to be doing you
know
like what else could i do
other than read and continue to
understand
yeah i mean
you know that that's that's sort of
you know i've tried it all
like
you know so it's sort of
i've been working at this for a while
and i'm a pretty smart guy so like i
know i've read a lot of stuff
um
you know so i it's not
yeah is i mean so it like on the one
hand
it sounds like you feel like you've
tried a lot of stuff and everything out
there
but there's
things that haven't been done
right
yeah like like what do you mean well
earlier remember when i asked um
like what happens when you
try to approach people to talk to them
right
your response i believe was that doesn't
really happen
yeah yeah i mean that's yeah
right so
the
actually let's let's back up a little
bit because i'm still
um
caught up in on the the piece about like
the learning the reading and stuff
so
how does it feel when you
read stuff about like talking to people
or like like building relationships like
losing weight exercising all that stuff
i feel like you know this is
like this is really going to help me
right like this is what i like because
you gotta i got to do something about it
you know yeah
and so
i'm very growth oriented
so
when i see a problem i try to take like
definitive action
and so i'll take definitive action
you know i'll do research
i'll you know
like look at like different reviews and
stuff for different books and see like
what's worked for other people and then
like i'll take definitive action
and what kind of defensive action here
like finding the right high quality
research
and then so i'll read like the books and
stuff like i've spent probably about two
or three thousand dollars on different
kinds of like
social and behavioral and like dating
courses and things like that
you know so i can equip myself to be
like ready to
you know
yes so sounds like it's a pretty good
feeling right because it feels like
you're growing like you're moving
towards the things you want
yeah
you know
i
i mean there's also like
i'm starting to lose a little bit of
confidence there too because like
you know because
there's a part of me that logically says
like it hasn't worked so i'm not quite
sure and that's sort of what makes me
feel stuck and that's actually why i
signed up for this
which part are you losing a little bit
of confidence on
just that you know you could like kind
of like what you're saying is like
you're kind of saying that like reading
is a waste of my time right
did i
i mean that's what you're saying right
like you're not saying it playing out
but you're kind of saying like reading's
like a waste of my time and i'm like not
approaching the problem correctly
and that what i just need to do is like
just like talk to girls
yeah i mean so so what i've been hearing
from you is that and what i'm you know
trying to
unpack and understand is that the
like you can like
you're this really smart dude right like
you understand a lot like you read a lot
all this stuff you have all this
information at your disposal
yet there's some
intermediate step between
like the information all that stuff and
like the things you want in your life
right so it yeah
the way i'm kind of hearing it is that
there's more to the like puzzle here
than just the into
the
information
yeah i mean i think so
yeah so
it seems like we want to try to figure
out what that is
yeah aren't you saying that that's me
you said that was you
well like don't you think i mean like
that's that's logical right like i'm the
comet like i'm at the end of the day i'm
reading a thousand books and i'm not
actually like talking to any girls
yeah i can see where you're coming from
i don't know if i necessarily agree that
it's like you
what else could it be
like
the phases
part of it part of the the issue here
right is you know if we if we want to
like take a step back and
look at the whole picture here is that
like ice like when when
when we say it's like the problem is
like you
that doesn't have like a clear i don't
get i don't have a clear idea of what
that actually means or is
right
like it sounds like the way we're
talking about makes it feel like some
like core components like your essence
or something
that is unlike changeable
you know i mean
yeah i mean i think i think you like
that was pretty good i think you kind of
figured it out right like there's
something
it's like a
it's good
i can i can
yeah
what do you mean it's good like that's
that's my problem like that's what i
need to change is like because
something's like busted
like fundamentally
something's busted or you're busted
well like that i mean it's gotta be me
right because i'm telling you like i've
got a high iq i've got a high eq i read
a lot i'm growth oriented
and so like i've got all of these
advantages and i really should not be
having these problems
are all those things not part of you as
well
well yeah but i mean those things are
like
that's kind of what i'm saying is i like
i want to fix that thing that's like
kind of screwed up right
yeah
so
let me think for a sec
sorry just lagged
yeah where you're fine
um
when did you start
believing that like you were the
fundamental problem here
i mean i always knew that things were
kind of off like
ever since i was a kid
you know like
like
i got made fun of a lot
growing up
you know
like
and i remember like
complaining to my parents about it and
my dad was like that's just life
you know
and
sort of like
if the kids treat you a particular way
it's because of like so he was like big
into
taking control of your life
he was a motivational speaker actually
and a pastor
and
so he was like
you know he explained to me that if if
some you know
you can whine about what your situation
is or you can do something about it
and so he kind of explained to me that
like
you know if the kids are making fun of
you like that's something that you can
you know
it's in your control to change that so
how you respond to that
what they say
you know it's kind of like you gotta
sort of man up and deal with that right
like what are you gonna do like cry
about it
yeah so so it sounds
like your dad
your dad kind of taught you that it's
like your responsibility and it's your
job to
fix the things that
like other kids are like bullying you
for right yeah i mean
so he was also like when my parents got
divorced he was kind of explaining to me
that you know when i was at my mom's
place like i would have to be the man of
the house
you know that like i had to like take
care of things
you know that's like
yeah
what was it like hearing all that as a
kid
i mean i think it was it really helped
me like understand that
you know it was like really empowering
because like i started to like really
realize that like i'm in control of my
destiny
you know
and that you can't really
you can't control other people's actions
so you have to like behave in a
particular way so that like they don't
treat you a particular way
like no one's going to give you a free
pass in life
yeah and so
can you tell me more about the bullying
like what happened when you
and your dad taught you all that
well i mean so that you know this is
kind of what i was saying is like
you know that's true right so he was
like
like like thousands of people looked up
to him
you know when he taught
the room was absolutely packed
and
he you know his
his support and his teach
helped so many people
and there was something that where you
know like
i would try to do what he told me to do
but like it never worked out the same
way
right so i i you know i stood up to the
bullies and they just like bullied me
worse and like i couldn't
you know i couldn't get them to change
so
so you
that was the time you were able to take
action right
um
yeah yeah
and
what ended up happening
i mean i didn't do it well enough right
so like i was supposed to really like be
confident and stuff like that and stand
up to them and like
i guess they like knew on some level
that
it was sort of like a game of chicken i
guess
where you know like
i'm kind of getting up in their face and
they're getting up in my face but like
they knew they were really confident and
i wasn't so i kind of backed down first
and they just like
you know and then they knew i was a
so then it was like game over
okay um
yeah so so it sounds like you stopped um
like trying to like face them right
yeah
and then what was it like for you after
you
stopped
i mean it wasn't pretty
you know
like
like because that's the thing right so
when you look at
research on like alpha wolves and beta
wolves and things like that like once
there's
a dominant
once there's a dominant
once there's a dominant dominance
hierarchy that's been exerted like
you just stay at the
bottom um
sorry ask you're doing great
uh yeah so so
you've been stuck at the bottom ever
since yeah
nice
um
that's what it feels like yeah
that's the thing right so i just don't
know how to get back to the top
sure
so does your does your dad's like
teaching no longer apply or how does
that fit in now
well
i mean i i think it it still applies
right because like
you know the world is what you make of
it
um
but to be honest it's been a while since
i've seen my dad i'm not you know so i
haven't like really talked to him much
about this stuff
can you can you tell me a bit more about
that your relationship with your dad
well so what happened i mean so
basically what happened is like they got
divorced
um i think i was like nine at the time
and then like i was saying like he's
like a really successful like
motivational speaker and so um
you know there were like tons of people
coming to him and things like that and
so he like his like career really like
you know
like really resonated with a lot of
people
and really picked up
and then sort of like he started
traveling and giving talks and stuff
like that and then
over time like actually
my mom just took full custody
um
and then at some point i think he
got remarried
um and he's got two other kids now
and so we're not really in touch as much
okay
how do you feel about that
i mean
you know on the one hand it's not great
on the other hand like i don't blame him
right because
you know
life is what you make of it and he
you know he had a good opportunity and
he seized it
and he like built a really good life for
himself
so that's that's sort of like what i
need to do with my life
sure yeah
so
i'm gonna ask the question again
how do you feel about
your dad kind of
going and pursuing this other life and
no longer interacting with you very much
i mean that's just the way the world
right it's like
you know
there's a dominance hierarchy and he's
like he's at the top so he's gonna
you know
like he's a dominant figure
okay so
remember earlier when we were talking
about how you're pretty in control of
your emotions yeah
right so are there
emotions here that you're
like in control of
yeah i mean sort of
how's it
well i mean i just feel kind of weird
like right now like i don't know why
we're talking about this
i don't know how you know it just feels
like
we're wasting time
okay wait
it just feels weird
what what do you mean by weird
what's weird mean
i don't know it just feels like
i don't know why you're asking me like
all these questions
like
i feel like you're trying to
get something out of me
you know
like
yeah what does it feel like i'm trying
to get out of you
i don't know that like you're gonna say
like my dad has like abandoned me and so
like i'm not confident or something like
that
well what makes you think i was gonna i
was thinking that or was trying to well
i mean that's sort of like what the
story sort of implies right like
like here he is and he's got like shiny
new wife and shiny new kids and there's
like me and mom and
i've read a lot of textbooks on
psychology like i know how it works
right
and does that have any
do you think any of that applies to you
i mean
theoretically yes like actually like
i don't know
and so
in theory
what what effect would all that have on
you
i mean
you know i'd probably have like problems
with like mentor figures or like male
figures or things like that right i
could project a lot
um
you know
i would probably have some kind of like
abandonment insecurity
or something like that
and so and you're not sure if any of
that applies to you
well i mean i don't know if how i'm
supposed to
be afraid of abandoning if i can't get
into a relationship to begin with
do you think that can have any impact on
getting into a relationship
i mean i guess
like
i guess it could you know
like i guess if i was afraid of being
abandoned like it would make it
you know hard for me to like trust
people and things like that
do you have problem do you have problems
trusting people
i mean that's what i'm sort of saying is
that
you know like i can't get to that point
with people to begin with
right
um
yeah so it it sounds like like what's
happening is
or at least you know as we're talking
like we're talking a lot about a lot of
stuff that could
theoretically apply to you but it
doesn't seem like things are quite
landing with you like a lot of things
are
i guess it could be right but
it doesn't seem like you really feel
like they apply to you
correct me from honda
yeah i mean you know i gotta be honest
now that i'm really thinking about it
like i do wonder if some of this stuff
applies to me
um
you know i i i think it's worth thinking
about
like
you know i think a lot of what you're
saying could make
sense um
i mean i think it sort of makes sense
that
you know if my dad like abandoned me or
whatever like
i could have confidence issues or things
like that
um
i guess i had never really thought about
i'd always thought like the abandonment
issue like wasn't a thing because
you know
once i like i thought it would like that
would like manifest if i was like in a
relationship so but i never really get
there to begin with
um i also wonder a little bit about
you know what you're kind of saying
about controlling emotions and sort of
like this black box of like what is me
you know it feels like like like there's
like a black box right we don't know
like what's in that black box
um
but i think that that's like the problem
that we don't know what's in the black
box yeah or or that the black box is
like why stuff doesn't work out the way
it's supposed to
ah okay
yeah and and then
to to add on to that do you remember
earlier when we were talking about
like
this
core sort of fundamental thing
yeah
right
it sounds like um
it sounds like
some of these things that you've sort of
talked about in theory like the the like
the black box that you mentioned and
like this
fundamental like you like problem with
you that's
factoring into the equation here and not
allowing for the stuff that you want to
get done in your life has some
connection to this like like i've heard
like trust issues
um abandonment things like that right
yeah maybe yeah
so yeah does it feel like that stuff is
like the missing link here
i mean sort of like i can see how it's
sort of related but like i'm kind of
saying like what i need to work on is
like the approach
you know
like i think all that stuff probably
comes afterward
what makes you think it comes afterward
and not well because it like applies to
relationships like logically right
sure
like you can't you can't get abandoned
if you're single
yeah exactly right
what what do you mean by that
you can't so so
well let me back up a bit
nope back
just go
yeah so you're saying they're
like abandonment issues that could
affect your ability to like trust people
in a relationship right yeah
but you feel like that's only that can
only happen once you're already in a
relationship right
yeah obviously is it
well what what makes you say obviously
well like because you can't get
abandoned if you're single
right so
is it possible though that
the
those like issues with abandonment and
not trusting people
are what keeps you single
what do you mean by that
right because
you have trouble
and we haven't really broken down like
the like play-by-play of like what
happens in your head and emotionally
when you like think about going and
talking people um
but
like that's part of the the equation
right
yeah like it seems like
that's one of the things that could
prevent you from going and talking to
people
wait are you are you saying that like
it's hard for me to like approach people
because if i'm single i never have to
worry about abandonment
i yeah i'm asking like what you think
about that idea if you feel like it
could be
i mean i've never thought about it that
way but it's kind of interesting
what's interesting
just that
you know i'd always thought that it like
so you know dr k talks about like
protective mechanisms
and i never sort of thought about
like the anxiety that i feel like
and what makes it like hard for me to
talk to girls is being like
you know because i'm sort of like not
playing the game right so if i'm not
playing the game like i can't lose
yeah
can you elaborate on the anxiety that
you feel
well just that like you know
because like what if she says no right
then i'm going to look like a dumb ass
and she's probably gonna say no because
i don't know how to talk to her
so it's sort of like
you know there's no point in trying
and so so what do you
what are you
referring to when you say anxiety what
makes you call that anxiety so isaac
let's pause here right because we're at
50 minutes so like why don't you try to
formulate
the client so like to wrap up right so
like think about this as
you don't know if he's gonna come next
week or not right
so what are you gonna say to him in the
last five minutes so try try to
formulate a little bit
more just because people are watching
so i'd say like for the last you know
five minutes like try to explain to this
person like what you think could be
going on
okay
what's your understanding of them and
maybe even how to move forward
yeah so
like the the
presentation of like the issues i've
heard are that you have trouble um
doing all these things that you want to
do
right and you understand them all very
like intellectually on a um
um
on an abstract like idea level but then
there's trouble like acting right and
just towards the end there we're getting
into like the emotions that into things
right and so
it sounded like there was some stuff
from
childhood like with his dad and stuff
that taught him like
to not act like with the bullies like he
tried to go and act you tried to
whatever tried to go and act
um and then that didn't work out and it
sounds like some like kind of like
learned hopelessness type stuff right
so like there was
what i'm
how i'm understanding it is that there's
like hopelessness baked in early on and
that's like a core emotional component
that's preventing
um
action in the present right
great
i thought you did a fantastic so for
what it's worth i didn't have that in my
mind when we started off
okay i didn't think so
and i think you just kind of uncovered
it and i kind of made up random answers
as we were going along but i thought you
did a fantastic job um especially like
you know i was not easy
so
i imagine that i was being purposely
like more difficult to deal with than
most of our actual clients
yeah you knew exactly what makes someone
difficult
and you did a fantastic man you did
really good
um so i was i you know usually people
are like we get to stuff way easier than
that but
yeah i'm curious where do you think were
areas to like harp on or that i should
have harped on more or like backed off
earlier
if any um so i think you did a
good job in general because i was trying
to be difficult right like i was trying
like i was fighting you for like each
useful answer
um i was going into litany's that was
just a waste of your time
right
and so
um so you did a really good job i also
like challenged you like tried
to trap you right ask you challenging
questions how do i compare to your like
all discussions that are like
a waste of everyone's time
and and you really you were a nice
slippery fish and got to where you
needed to go so i thought she did really
good and i was like actively trying to
sabotage this
coaching session
yeah
so i think you did really good there i
think a couple of things that i would
encourage you to do
is uh this is just in general especially
for like the more veteran coaches like
yourself i would encourage you all to
like share more thoughts
okay
um so i think you were asking a lot of
good open-ended questions and stuff like
that um but i would you know especially
if there's someone who's alexa thymic
which i'm pretty sure you figured out
right so like once you know that they're
lexa-thymic like asking open-ended
questions about emotions is gonna be
sort of you may just like it'll make the
session feel unproductive
so i think when you kind of got to the
dad's story and things like that like if
you kept asking you know there would
have been like other situations
where
i tried to fix my life and like it
didn't work out for me you could ask me
about my mom and there would have been
stuff there right so there's like like
you kind of said learned hopelessness
early on this whole thing of like it's
not worth trying
because i'm gonna fail
so
i would also ask you know i would i
would
so i would say you know share more of
what you think
you did a good job of sort of saying i'm
hearing but i felt like there was like
you could just formulate a little bit or
like give me something you were just
encapsulating what i was saying but like
you could say
you know
i you know if you're detecting that
learned hopelessness
you know i would say something like
do you know so i'm hearing that
sometimes it's not even worth trying
because the chances of likelihood or low
right
yeah and then then i would kind of laugh
and say well no wonder you're stuck
because it's not it's not worth trying
you know like that's like it's just a
tiny little
you know like you can connect those dots
a little bit because i think i think you
know
so i just share that right and and you
got to be careful you have to look at
how they respond to that they may take
it off you know they may be offended and
things so i think you were really gentle
which you needed to be
but i think the big feedback for all
y'all veteran coaches is y'all
understand way more
than
you let on with the clients
so yeah i guess
one concern i had was like playing into
like the over into intellectualizing and
like presenting like ideas and stuff
that he's like like i think someone like
this would really latch on to and like
try to run with um
which may or may not be counter or
counter productive no so that's that's
right so that so if you had done that i
would have taken you for an intellectual
right so there's a big difference
between explaining in a complicated way
the theory of how this person's mind
works because then you're because
he's gonna like debate with you and all
that kind of stuff so but there's a
difference between that kind of long
explanation and an affectively charged
emotionally charged little statement
that you tack on
right okay right so there's like a
difference between saying hey like oh
you have like a learned hopelessness and
learned hopelessness makes it hard for
you blah blah blah like don't worry
about that it's like oh so like it's not
worth trying because chances are you're
gonna fail well no wonder you don't have
ever ask anyone out
right there's you can't intellectually
engage with that but you're gonna it's
gonna be like i'd encourage you to like
sucker punch your client just a little
bit more
and that's kind of weird but just let
you know let them have it like be
authentic with them if you really see a
problem it's like yeah i can see that
you know you're kind of paralyzed
because
it seems like
trying is a waste of your time and
you're going to fail anyway so why
bother
no wonder it's hard for you
right so you can formulate a little bit
and just
let them have it a little bit more
especially with people who are like
hyper intellectualized like a good
emotionally charged
like statement that's kind of like a
punch to the gut you've got to be
careful so i i'm glad you were gentle
but then you'll see affectively how they
respond right you do tiny little one you
always apologize
if they're offended
okay yeah
makes sense
yeah trust yourselves more you guys are
good
yeah i was i was really excited towards
the end when you finally used an emotion
like settings
yeah so so that's where you know if
i i would you know from a time
management standpoint
i would open that up next time because
you are really doing really good on sort
of like the learned hopelessness and the
stuckness and pointing out to him that
there's like you could also explore
what it feels like to be like
fundamentally busted
you know because that that will get
emotions that'll get affect
like if you ask him like do you feel
like no matter what you do you're gonna
just be screwed no matter what
and that despite because it's kind of if
you think about you know how broken this
person must feel
the more books he reads
and the more money he spends on all
these solutions that work for other
people
and if it doesn't work what does that
mean about how broken he is
yeah yeah
can you articulate for the stream i know
i'm putting you on the spot
repeat the question so so
if if i do a lot of i know i'm kind of
putting you on the spot but so if if i
do if i read a lot of books and it still
doesn't work what does that mean about
how busted i am
even more busted exactly right so what's
happening with this guy is the more that
he tries
the more broken he feels
and the more he invests in fixing his
life
and the less his life because you
figured it out early on that you even
pointed out so that's something that i
didn't give it to you but over time you
you actually won a lot of points there
when you were like it sounds like you're
reading a lot but it doesn't
help
right so that's actually a huge win in
the session
which over time so when we see
behavioral change in our clients
those kinds of things they don't the
light bulb doesn't go off then but like
you've teed him up to act more
experiment more and read less with that
thing even though i'm not going to say
it to you because they're not going to
realize it in the moment but we like
move their you know this is why like six
weeks in seven weeks eight weeks in
clients just start changing right they
start like behaving differently they
break out of their old patterns and it's
not like they have this moment of like
light bulb and then they wake up the
next day it's like a slow chipping away
at their like conceptions about the
world that allows them to act in a new
way so that was really good
yeah okay gotcha gotcha yeah
good job man
really good job that was brutal
yeah i i know i wasn't i wasn't easy on
you but i thought you did really really
good
um and and i think you also showcased
despite the fact that it was like
artificial and hard and you know i
couldn't help but break character a
couple of times i think that
for anyone that was watching isaac is
actually far smoother and even better
than what y'all saw here today
so good job man any questions for me and
anything you want to share about this
experience
yeah actually um
do you
maybe you could talk a little bit about
how people should like interpret like
what they saw here and like how this
like this session um this role-playing
should fact like ought to factor into
their decision to get coaching or not to
get coaching because i imagine a lot of
people are using it like that you know
yeah
so the first thing is that
um
so the first thing that i think we
wanted to kind of showcase is just how
good y'all are
so like a lot of people think that
um
you know the the understanding of the
mind that we showcase on stream or that
i share with people
is like only my own
but and and y'all aren't i also trapped
you you know tossed you a landmine early
on in terms of like oh you know like
when do i get to talk to dr k or
whatever so i i think the cool thing is
that
that what we do on stream can be taught
and i think isaac you've understood it
really well because you figured this
client out like relatively quickly and
for those of you that are you know
curious like we get these kinds of
clients a lot clients who hyper
intellectualize clients who don't aren't
in touch with their emotions clients who
despite their their best efforts remain
stuck
um
so i tried to tap into a lot of
different
things that we see
so i think the other thing to to
recognize uh from this role play is that
first of all it's not as awkward or
difficult
it's actually like a lot smoother when
you're actually talking to a person
um whereas i was actively trying to make
isaac's life harder and and you know i
think
isaac gets you know works really well
with a lot of our clients and that's
because their clients aren't trying to
make his life difficult
the next thing to kind of take away is
that i think it's a good example of like
there isn't necessarily emotional
catharsis
um which i
you know but that doesn't mean that
there isn't change
and that change sort of happens
like i don't know if you guys could kind
of tell but there were some statements
that i made where like isaac pointed out
to me like how my thinking was flawed
like reading doesn't actually help you
know that there's something fundamental
broken in me and that tease us up
for exploring okay how do you feel
fundamentally broken are you actually
fundamentally broken because no amount
of books that i read will ever give me
an opportunity to understand how i
myself was shattered by like whatever
experiences i grew up with
right so and as i actually the problem
is that this person is looking for
answers from like external sources
instead of understanding themselves and
as i start to understand myself like the
anxiety will get better i'll be able to
act more whatever like you'll figure
yourself out you know i'll stop reading
books and spend maybe more time like
meditating or whatever so i i think that
like the key thing is that you know this
is in a sense a good example of like
showing you know how a coach can even
with a really difficult client like
unpack things relatively easily and
start the process of changing the way
that they view the world and understand
themselves which is really all
everything that coaching is about
so that's what i'd say people should
take away
you